Visualizing Progressions for Education and Game Design
======================================================
Eric Butler, Rahul Banerjee

This project is an interactive visualization of _progressions_ from games. It allows for two progressions from the same game to be compared.

Materials
---------

[Paper](final/paper-edbutler-piscean.pdf)
[Poster](final/poster-edbutler-piscean.pdf)

How to Run
----------

The program is web-based, but requires a python web server backend to do the MDS computation. The primary python packages it requires are:
* [Flask](http://flask.pocoo.org/)
* numpy
* scipy
* matplotlib
* [scikit-learn](http://scikit-learn.org/stable/)
These packages are all available in pip, and can be installed with
```
pip install -r req.txt
```
The entry point is `src/main.py`. It will launch a webserver on `localhost:5000`.

So, for example, on a recent ubuntu distro, the program can be setup and run with:
```
sudo apt-get install python-virtualenv
virtualenv venv/
source venv/bin/activate
pip install -r req.txt
cd src/
./main.py
```
The open `http://localhost:5000/` in a browser.

Several datasets are included in `src/data/`. The main page has links to a few interesting example comparisons, or datasets can be selected from a dropdown automatically generated by scanning the `src/data` folder.

Work Breakdown
--------------

The research process was primarily exploring several different visual encodings of our data, then integrating the promising ones into an interactive tool. We each implemented several different prototype encodings for the first half of the project, and then we jointly implemented the final interactive application, with each of us taking charge of different visualizations in the final application. For example, Rahul handled the bar chart and Eric handled brushing and linking. A substantial portion of the work was creating the various progression datafiles; we need to choose a standard format and extract/convert progression data from the games. These test encodings and conversion scripts are not included in the public submission.


